The ovaries are located on
each side of the uterus.
Inside the ovaries are
follicles containing immature eggs.
Each month during ovulation,
a follicle in one ovary
releases a single mature egg
for possible fertilization.
Ovulation occurs in response to
hormones called luteinizing hormone,
or LH,
and follicle-stimulating hormone,
or FSH.
LH and FSH are produced by the tiny
pituitary gland at the base of the brain.
LH and FSH also stimulate the ovarian follicles
in the ovaries to produce estrogen and progesterone,
which are responsible for female sexual
characteristics and preparing the uterus
for a fertilized egg.
With aging, the number of ovarian follicles declines
and the follicles become less
responsive to LH and FSH,
so they begin to produce less estrogen.
Ovulation and menstruation become more
irregular and eventually cease,
which we call menopause.
Along with these changes,
skin may become drier.
The hair on the head may thin;
while facial hair becomes coarser
and abdominal fat deposits may increase.